.\" Manpage for tstools_nic_monitor.
.\" Contact stoth@ltnglobal.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "2 Aug 2021" "1.4" "tstools_nic_monitor man page"
.SH NAME
tstools_nic_monitor \- Inspect MPEG-TS stream interactively or with stats to disk.
.SH SYNOPSIS
tstools_nic_monitor -i <iface>
  -v Increase level of verbosity.
  -h Display command line help.
  -t <#seconds>. Stop after N seconds [def: 0 - unlimited]
  -M Display an interactive console with stats.
  -D <dir> Write any PCAP recordings in this target directory prefix. [def: /tmp]
  -d <dir> Write summary stats per stream in this target directory prefix, every -n seconds.
  -w <dir> Write detailed pid stats per stream in this target directory prefix, every -n seconds.
  -n <seconds> Interval to update -d file based stats [def: 5]
  -F '<string>' Use a custom pcap filter. [def: 'udp dst portrange 4000-4999']
  -S <number> Packet buffer size [def: 8192] (min: 2048)
  -B <number> Buffer size [def: 33554432]
  -R Automatically Record all discovered streams
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B
Warning: This tool requires super-user privileges.
Care should be taked if using the -d, -D and -w options.

tstools_nic_monitor detects and monitors RTP-TS, UDP-TS and A/324 STL CTP streams from the user
selected network interface, multicast or unicast.

Typically used for finding transport stream packet loss and measuring bitrates without needing
to capture the UDP MPEG-TS and bring it back to a data center for analysis. Also used
for hepfull 1 minute pcap captures, measuring packet IATs.

Packet loss is show interactively as a counter in the CCError column.
By default, the tool runs indefinitely. Optionally, run the tool for (-t) seconds.

Packet counts for A/324 streams is a measure of UDP packets. For TS based streams its a measure
of Transport packets.

CC Errors for A/324 streams represents how many times the sequence_number in the RTP header
was non-consecutive, in order words - lost packets - yes it works.

It finds and detects UDP, RTP MPEG-TS and A324/CTP packet using a default pcap filter, then examines
all of those streams in realtime for bitrate measures, packet loss, per pid or globally per stream.
The results are presented via a UI interactively (-M), or with additional per-pid details via the
console upon exit, or optionally by writing these stats to files (-d -w) for long term testing.

The tools runs indefintely until terminated by the user. In interactive mode (-M) using the 'q' button
to terminate. In non-interactive mode, use ctrl-c.

.SH OPTIONS
-i <iface> The physical network interface that will be opened and read from. Eg. eno1
           No default interface is assumed, user must provide.
           The pcap interface use used exclusively in READ ONLY mode.

-d <dir> Write all statistics to files in this directory prefix.
         Filename is auto-generated based on the UDP target ip and port
         Eg. -d /storage/ltn/logs/stats-my-test--
                could result in files being creates such as:
                  /storage/ltn/logs/stats-my-test--234.1.2.45:4010
                  /storage/ltn/logs/stats-my-test--234.1.2.71:4071
                  /storage/ltn/logs/stats-my-test--234.1.2.74:4074
                  /storage/ltn/logs/stats-my-test--234.1.200.80:4280

         File format: datetime,nicname,bps,mbps,tspacketcount,ccerrors,ipsrcaddr,ipdstaadr

         On startup, if enabled, one file per UDP/RTP stream is opened. The
         statistics are appended to the files every (-n) seconds.
         The default dir is the working directory.
         Stats files are owned by the orignal SUDO user, when running in sudo privs.
         Stats files are given the 644 access attributes.

-w <dir> Write detailed per-pid statistics to files in this directory prefix.
         The output fileformat is considered undefined, subject to change at any time.
         This is a superset of the -d mode. Unless you specifically want per-pid stats,
         use mode -d instead.
         Filename is auto-generated based on the UDP target ip and port
         Eg. -d /storage/ltn/logs/detailed-stats--
                could result in files being creates such as:
                  /storage/ltn/logs/detailed-stats--234.1.2.45:4010
                  /storage/ltn/logs/detailed-stats--234.1.2.71:4071
                  /storage/ltn/logs/detailed-stats--234.1.2.74:4074
                  /storage/ltn/logs/detailed-stats--234.1.200.80:4280

         File format is intensionally undefined.

         On startup, if enabled, one file per UDP/RTP stream is opened. The
         statistics are appended to the files every (-n) seconds.
         The default dir is the working directory.
         Stats files are owned by the orignal SUDO user, when running in sudo privs.
         Stats files are given the 644 access attributes.

-F 'string' Define a custom PCAP filter to include or exclude certain packet types.
   The default packet filter is: 'udp dst portrange 4000-4999'
   IE. Any UDP packets found on interface (-i) with a destination portrange of 4000 to 4999.

-h Display command line options.

-M Run in interactive mode with a curses based user interface, showing all statistics. (non-default mode)

-n <#seconds> When writing stats to disk (-d), update stats every -N seconds.
   Default value 5 seconds.

-t <#seconds> Collect #seconds of stats then terminate.

-S <number> Packet buffer size [def: 8192] (min: 2048) (Don't change this unless instructed to do so).

-B <number> Buffer size [def: 33554432] (Don't change this unless instructed to do so).

-R Automatically Record all discovered streams

.SH EXAMPLES
1) tstools_nic_monitor -i eno1 -M
   Discover any UDP/RTP packets on eno1, show the result indefintely in a running UI.
   Useful when you need a 'quick glance' to ensure no packetloss occurs at an ingest or egress site.

   The UI looks scans the keyboard for (q)uit and (r)eset counters commands:

   udp dst portrange 4000-4999                      NIC: eno1 (192.168.2.0/255.255.255.0)
   <--------------------------------------------------- M/BIT <------PACKETS <------CCErr

   UDP    192.168.2.45:43336 ->    234.1.2.45:4045       5.00          49252            0
   RTP     192.168.2.16:1234 ->    234.1.2.16:4016      12.01        2417191            8
   UDP     192.168.2.18:5005 ->     234.1.2.5:4005      19.99       51191967          104

   q)uit r)eset
   TSTOOLS_NIC_MONITOR                                           Tue Apr 30 16:23:02 2019

2) tstools_nic_monitor -i eno1 -t 15
   The console will be silent, after 15 seconds the tool terminates and shows any discovered streams.
   One stream was discovered here, perfect to cut/paste the results into a trouble ticker ot email.
   Terminate the tool with ctrl-c when the test is considered complete.

      : 192.168.2.45:43336 -> 234.1.2.45:4010 (UDP)
      PID   PID     PacketCount     CCErrors    TEIErrors @   4.99
   <---------------------------  ----------- ------------ ---Mb/ps------------------>
   0x0000 (   0)             45            0            0     0.02
   0x0030 (  48)             45            0            0     0.02
   0x0031 (  49)          11365            0            0     3.94
   0x0032 (  50)           1197            0            0     0.43
   0x1fff (8191)           1544            0            0     0.59


3) tstools_nic_monitor -i eno1 -d /storage/ltn/logs/nicname-
   Collect stream statistics to individual files with a prefix of /storage/ltn/logs/nicname-
   Run the tool indefintely, record stats to disk every 5 seconds.
   Terminate the tool with ctrl-c when the test is considered complete.

.SH SEE ALSO
tstools_si_inspector(8), tstools_clock_inspector(8), tstools_udp_capture(8), tstools_pcap2ts(8)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Steven Toth (stoth@ltnglobal.com)
